Bem was a 40-years established psychology researcher with a long and excellent publication record, while being a professor at 3 different Ivy League universities. For the precognition experiments, Bem used very well validated & common psychology tests, and simply reversed the order of some steps to make them tests of precognition. Bem put in much effort to make his materials available to other researchers for replication.

In 2011, Bem published a paper that was actually 9 studies in one paper. 8 of the 9 were statistically significant on their own. That was [Feeling the future: experimental evidence for anomalous retroactive influences on cognition and affect](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21280961/). The results had an odds by chance of 1 in 10 billion.

In 2015, Bem published a meta-analysis of 90 replications of his study. [Feeling the future: A meta-analysis of 90 experiments on the anomalous anticipation of random future events](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26834996/). The Bayesian Factor (BF) for the independent replications was 3,853, on a scale that normally goes from like 1 to 100, where a BF of 100 is considered as decisive evidence. In Table 2, the replications were divided into two types: 29 “slow-thinking” studies and 61 “fast-thinking” studies. The 29 slow-thinking studies were collectively not significant. However, the 61 fast-thinking studies had P = 0.00000000000058, or odds-by-chance of 1 in 1.7 trillion. The potential for publication bias was addressed by calculating the “file drawer” effect: there would need to be at least 544 unreported studies with null results for these studies to not be significant. There could not have reasonably been that many unreported studies in the small, underfunded field of parapsychology.